# Writing Your Model File
Dash uses the JSON format to describe the domain models. Each JSON file is called a _Dash Model File_.

!!! warning

    If you are not familiar with JSON, we recommend you to first learn the basics of JSON before proceeding.

## Basic Rules
- In Dash, you define Entities, Attributes, and Relationships.
- The order and scope in which Entities are defined in the source code **do not matter**.
- Always use **singular nouns** for naming Entities.
- Dash uses Convention Over Configuration.
- Dash is case-insensitive.

Let's go through a series of examples to learn write Dash Model Files. The generated POCO is included as a reference.

## Basic Anatomy of a Dash Model file
The JSON content is very simple.

At its root level, there are only 2 JSON Objects: the _optional_ `Configuration` and the _required_ `Model` object:

~~~ JSON
{
    "Configuration": {
    },

    "Model": {
    }
}
~~~

Inside the `Configuration` object, you define properties related to code generation.

If this object or any of its properties are not defined, then default values will be used instead. Let's take a look at an example:

~~~ JSON
{
    "Configuration": {
        "AutogenSuffix": ".generated",
        "Header": "(c) 2020 Dash",
        "Templates": [
            {
                "Template": "./MyTemplate/EfContext",
                "Output": "./Ef",
            },
            {
                "Template": "./MyTemplates/Poco",
                "Output": "./Poco"
            }
        ]
    }
}
~~~

### AutogenSuffix
The value that will be appended after the filename, and prepended before the extension to indicate that the file was auto-generated

**data type:** `string`

**default:** `.generated`

### Header
The header that will be injected as comments in every generated file

**data type:** `string`

**default:** `<auto-generated>This code was generated by dotnet dash CLI. Manual changes to this file will be overwritten if the code is regenerated.</auto-generated>`

### Templates
Specify the templates which will be used for code generation

**data type:** Array of `string` values, or [`Template`](#Template-Object) objects

**default:**
~~~ JSON
[
    {
        "Template": "dash://efpoco",
        "Output": ".",
    },
    {
        "Template": "dash://efcontext",
        "Output": "."
    }
]
~~~

## Template Object
Each `Template` object is used to reference a single [Built-in Template](built-in-templates.md) or [Custom Template](writing-your-custom-templates.md).

Dash will use the referenced templates to generate code.

~~~ JSON
{
    "Template": "dash://efpoco",
    "Output": "./Poco"
}
~~~

### Template
The name of the template.

**data type:** [`uri`](#uri)

**default:** _No default value_

### Output
The absolute output file location, or relative to the [working directory](to-do).

**data type:** [`uri`](#uri)

**default:** `.`

### URI
To reference Templates (and other types of [Resources](to-do)), you provide a value conform to the [Uniform Resource Identifier syntax](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier).

Dash supports the following URI schemes:

| Scheme  | Read | Write | Description                                                                   |
|---------|------|-------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| dash    | Yes  | No    | Access embedded Dash resources: [Built-in Templates](./built-in-templates.md) |
| file    | Yes  | Yes   | Access local computer resources                                               |
| http(s) | Yes  | No    | Access external resources (authentication not (yet) supported)                |

## Model Object
This is where interesting things are happening. Inside the `Model` property, you can define entities, its attributes, and the relationship between various entities.